Okay, with that, I think the final thing
we wanna end on is deploying your app.
So we're gonna take a couple
minutes to take a look at that.
So when it comes to deploying your app,
if you do it the standard way,
you usually have to do like an FTP server,
and you got to build this thing, right?
Because after all,
if we take a look at our cest-la-vue app,
this is not something that we can just
drop on a server and it will just work.
We need to actually build the thing.
So the way this works, if you take
a look at your package.json instead of
cest-la-vue, you'll see that there's
actually a build command that we can run.
So let's go ahead and do that, shall we?
So inside of here,
we go to cest-la-vue and npm run build.
And right now, there's a bunch of stuff in
there, so let me clean that up real quick.
Okay, npm run build.
There we go.
Okay, and what that will build for
you is a dist folder, which stands for
basically distributed folder.
And inside of here, now, this should look
like something you can actually deploy,
where you have your index.html.
You can see that there's generated hashes
for your different assets, for CSS,
JavaScript, managing those things.
And you might notice that, look, those
chunks that we did when we did the route,
here they are,
they're already parsed out for
us because the bundler
already did that for us.
Now, of course, deploying this
can be done a number of ways, but
I'll just be showing you how to do this
in sort of a Git based format rather than
just dropping it on the server.
And so this is a shout out for
the company I work for, Netlify.
So if you have a free account,
this will work fairly easily.
So what I'm gonna do here, I'm gonna
go ahead and log in to my account.
And what we're gonna do is just,
we're gonna create a new site.
And so the reason this is really nice is
because what you're doing here is you're
creating a pipeline that
connects your GitHub repo that
you're basically committing all
your code to to your deployments.
So basically, similar to the way
you want it to watch for
reactive things in view to do things,
this will watch a repo, and
we make changes to it,
it will then run your deployments.
And so here, we go, complete-intro.
That should show up, doo doo doo,
once we give it a little bit.
There we go, complete-intro-to-vue-3.
And then we have a Branch to deploy.
And currently,
my cest-la-vue really don't need to be 16.
So I'm gonna be deploying
the 16-solution brands, but normally,
you'll be deploying your main branch.
And then the Base directory is, for me,
gonna be cest-la-vue because we have
multiple apps running inside
of the project right now.
So that's the specific one I wanna build.
And then we're gonna run the command,
npm run build.
And the directory, though, we have
to remember is what's actually being
outputted, it's a dist directory,
and so that's what being configured.
So once we run that,
we get something that's pretty great.
So for anyone who used to do things in
the old days, where you did FTP servers,
you have to manage a lot of caching,
right?
If you uploaded a CSS file,
you had to manage like,
is the user gonna get the right thing,
are they looking at the same version?
And so oftentimes, when you're debugging
things, it is hard to figure out what is
going on because what your user's
seeing might not be what you're seeing.
And so in the effort of having
Git deployments basically,
one of the things that Netlify does for
you, and
there are other companies that do this
as well, so this is not the only one.
Is that you'll see here that
it automatically generated for
me a random URL that I
could share with people.
And so you can see here that all my
functionality is in here, actually.
So if I can Continue with emails,
it's live, which is great.
That happened in a matter of seconds.
And then the other thing too is that with
the Domain settings, it's pretty easy for
us to then say,
let's go ahead and swap this out.
And I'm gonna call this cest-la-vue.
Granted, this is where we get to it first.
But now that I swapped it out, we can see
now that when I open it up, there we go,
cest-la-vue.netlify.app, and
it just works.
And the beautiful part about this is not
so much that it deploys, cuz again, there
are many ways to deploy, it's the fact
that it'll watch your GitHub repository.
So in other words, if you go inside
of the app.view right now for
cest-la-vue, and then instead at
the very top, we'll say something.
Let's see, from here, we'll say,
This is a new message.
And then I think I did a triple s on that,
and let's fix that.
And then if we commit this to our branch,
so
cest-la-vue here, and
then ignore this stuff for now.
One, two, three, four, five,
git commit, feature: add new message.
And then I push on this branch.
One of the things you'll see is that in
the Deploys, basically, there's a hook to
watch GitHub repo, and it knows, hey,
it's time to make another build.
And so you can see here, it's going off,
it's running, it's building the thing,
that's fine.
And so what's really cool about this,
though,
is that when it's running this build,
is basically doing an atomic deploy.
So what that means is that it's completely
separate from the previous deploy.
Cuz that was the problem with
a lot of enterprise systems,
is that once you push to deploy, you
weren't sure what the assets were, and so
especially if you're
having users with issues.
It was hard to debug, and
then let alone rollbacks,
it was kind of a nightmare
to deal with all of that.
So okay, our site is live,
so we can see now.
If I go over here, you see, hey, look,
This is a new message, is right here.
But again, in the effort, the atomic
deploy model, what if your product manager
is like, whoa, whoa, whoa,
we don't want this message, that is a bug?
Well, typically, what you'd have to
do is you have to get your engineers,
you have to be like, hurry up,
we got to figure out what's going on, and
you got to push the right code, right?
But now, what you can do because of the
atomic deploy is you can come in here if
we actually just say, you know what?
We're gonna go ahead and, doo doo doo,
inside of here,
we can polish this deploy instead.
Whoa, not this one.
There you go, click Publish deploy,
and we publish it.
And what you'll see now is that it's
switched now from the latest commit and
what we have here when we
go back to our URL, voila.
Everything's fixed.
And so this is basically, I would say, the
modern way when it comes to thinking of
deployment in that,
especially because we get versioning.
Why should not deploys also be versioned
in a way that allows us to go ahead and
whether it's split testing or ensure that
we deliver the same thing to our users.
This is something that I
wanted to show you all and
how you can deploy your app with Vue.